*** Lattices

Solids consist of atoms arranged in a periodic way. So to understand solids we need to start by understanding periodic arangements.

Simplest thing to model is obviously Hydrogen atoms in a 1D lattice:
Hydrogen Chain: all the hydrogen atoms are the same distance apart.
Distorted Hydrogen Chain: the hydrogen atoms have distorted themselves so they are in pairs. This is called a Pierls Distortion and is a common thing for a 1d chain of atoms to do.

In a hydrogen chain, the unit distance apart is 1 angstrom.
In a distorted hydrogen chain, a unit cell can contain multiple hydrogens (meaning the distance between hydrogen pairs can be less or more than 1 angstrom)

They are treated as translationally invariant (both normal/distorted chains), meaning if we shift a left or right (assuming periodic boundaries), they represent the same system

Formally, the description of the model is as follows:
1. In a real solid, we should think of it essentially being infinitely long. Our computers don’t like to hold an infinite amount of information.
   To best emulate this what we do is use periodic boundary conditions. Assume we want to only hold six atoms. Then we say that atom 6 is actually adjacent to atom 1.

2. We see that there is a chunk of the material that can be translated by a1 and you get back the same system.
   We call that chunk of material the unit cell and a1 the lattice vector.
   In the Hydrogen chain we see that the unit cell contains one Hydrogen atom and that a1=1 unit in the x direction.
   In the distorted Hydrogen chain we see that the unit cell contains two Hydrogen atoms and that a1=2 units in the x direction.

3. The center of all our unit cells are at m*a1 where m is an integer between 0 and N (the number of unit cells). This defines our real-space lattice.

Labeling our lattice sites: Now, we might want to label our hydrogen atoms.
We could label them by their position (i.e. the Hydrogen atom at spot 2.8) but that turns out to be less convenient then labeling them by (unit cell, atom number).
Then we can talk about the Hydrogen atom labelled (3,b) which is the “b” Hydrogen atom in the 3rd unit cell.

*** Momentum Space
We have a real space lattice of unit cells each of which contain some number of types of atoms. We can also have a momentum space lattice (called the reciprocal lattice)
again each of which contains some number of types of atoms (so 2 in the distorted Hydrogen lattice)

The reciprocal lattice is defined (in 1d) as m*b i where 0≤m<N is an integer where N is the number of unit cells and b1=2π/(N*|a1|) (the key property that b must obey is that b1*Na1=2π).
We will have a list of labels that consist of (m, atom type).

